ASSIGNMENT 1

1.How HTTPS works behind the scene?

HTTP exchanges resources between server & client using REQUEST RESPONSE stateless method
HTTPS uses Transport Layer Security (TLS) or Secure Sockets Layer (SSL) as a sublayer to HTTP application layering. It encrypts and decrypts user HTTP transmission data. Encryption protects against many cyber attacks.
HTTPS REQUEST contains:
A URL: It is the data which locates a resource on the web, gives a exact path to its location.
A Protocol: This shows the specific action that the request expects to receive from the server in its response.
Headers: It includes data such as what type of browser is being used. It also includes cookies, which show information previously sent from the server handling.
A body: This is optional information the client needs from the request, such as user forms -- username/password logins etc.

HTTP RESPONSE contains: The HTTP response message is the data received by a client device from the web server. Ususally it is same as Request but with additional content in the body.

2. What are different http methods available and what they exactly do.

HTTP request methods indicate the desired action to be performed. Each method has a different syntax but common features like safe, cacheable.
HTTP methods:
GET
The GET method requests a representation of the specified resource to retrieve data.
HEAD
The HEAD method asks for a response similar to GET request, but without the response body.
POST
The POST method is used to submit an entity at the specified resource, this method often causing a change in state on the server.
PUT
The PUT method replaces all current representations of the target resource with the request payload.
DELETE
The DELETE method deletes the specified resource on server.
CONNECT
The CONNECT method establishes a tunnel to the server that is identified by the target resource.
OPTIONS
The OPTIONS method describes the communication options for the target resource.
TRACE
The TRACE method performs a message loop-back test along the path to the target resource.
PATCH
The PATCH method applies partial modifications to a resource.

3. Explain the use of various http response codes.

HTTP response codes are used to track the status of the request sent by the client to the server. 
The Responses are:
Informational responses (100-199)
Success responses (200-299)
Redirection (300-399)
Client errors (400-499)
Servers errors (500-599)

Some of the basic response codes are -
200 OK. 
300 Url Moved Permanently. 
401 Unauthorized. 
403 Forbidden. 
404 Not Found. 
500 Internal Server Error. 

4. What are the different web communication protocols and their use cases?

A protocol is a set of rules how a particular technology will function for communication. A sort of digital language implemented in the form of algorithms. 

Different communication protocols are :
Transmission Control Protocol (TCP) : It divides any message into series of packets that are sent from source to destination and there it gets reassembled at the destination.
Internet Protocol (IP) : Mostly it is used with TCP. The IP addresses in packets help in routing them through different nodes in a network until it reaches the destination system.
User Datagram Protocol (UDP): It is implemented primarily for creating loss-tolerating and low-latency linking between different applications.
Post office Protocol (POP): It is designed for receiving incoming E-mails.
Simple mail transport Protocol (SMTP) : It is designed to send and distribute outgoing E-Mail.
File Transfer Protocol (FTP): It allows users to transfer files from one machine to another.
Hyper Text Transfer Protocol (HTTP): It is designed for transferring a hypertext among two or more systems.
Hyper Text Transfer Protocol Secure (HTTPS) : It is a standard protocol to secure the communication among two computers i.e. between client’s browser & server.
Telnet: These are the set of rules designed for connecting one system with another.
Gopher : These are the collection of rules implemented for searching, retrieving as well as displaying documents.

5. Pros and cons of Single page and multi page applications.

A Single Page application is a single page received from server that continuously interacts with the user by dynamically rewriting the current page rather than loading entire new pages from a server. As it makes the changes into the same page only in parts, which provides early interaction with the page.
eg. Facebook, Gmail, and Twitter 
Pros of SPA:
Quick Loading Time
Seamless User Experience
Ease in Building Feature-rich Apps
Uses Less Bandwidth
Cons of SPA:
Doesn’t Perform Well With SEO
Uses a Lot of Browser Resources
Security Issues

Multi-page Application:
It is the application consisting of many pages completely refreshed every time when data changes. A multi-page website is a more complex website that contains multiple different pages like an eCommerce store. Eg Amazon or eBay.

Pros of MPA :
Better SEO
Unlimited scalability
Better Insights from Analytics
Cons of MPA :
Slower speed and overall performance
More time for development
Harder maintenance and updates
